So we're going to continue our discussion of IP address swing by next discussing hierarchical addressing and seeing where we're headed with how IP addressing works over
So IP addresses
as we've seen examples of typically
I'm at least an ipv4
We use this dotted quad notation
We then use a prefix of the IP address for aggregation
We saw that in when we discuss forwarding with longest prefixes
And then
there are a few different ways that IP addresses can be grouped together either using classful address or using classless interdomain routing or Cedar addressing or not talk about these
There are also some special purpose address block
So some reserved addresses that you may be familiar with and then finally will get into a discussion of how Network address translation Works which alleviate some of the issues with having a finite supply of IP addresses
There's another problem that will discuss a little bit of which is how we assign IP addresses
How do we pick which address blocks to give out to her
How do we assign IP addresses to your particular organization
So
I'll talk a little bit about that
So just remind you in the IP packet
header
We have 32 bits for a source IP address in 32 bits for a destination IP address
So this is going to correspond to those
A quad notation
where we'll have four
8-bit numbers in each of those quads
So we'll see how that looks
So
there are two IP addresses there
The destination address
again needs to be unique
identifier locator for the receiving address in the source
Address needs to be unique
identifier or a locator for the sending host
So how should we associate IP addresses with things that we need to address
So
for example
a telephone number is not associated with a person but with a handset typically
what structure should we also impose on addresses and what implications for different types of structures like that lead to then who determines a particular address is used on the global internet since this is a shared resource
What implications are there of how that's done
So I can address some of these issues as we start to look into how IP addresses work and how they're built up
So
what's the IP address again in
Ipv4
This is a unique
32-bit number what did identifies as an interface on a particular Hoster router
And this is because a given router might have multiple interfaces
likewise it given computer might have multiple network interface cards
The standard representation of this
in this dotted quad notation
Looks like this where each of these bites would correspond
Aa200 number between 0 and 255 read
So
for this number 1234, 15085
It would look something like this where the first bite corresponding to the 12 II by corresponds to the 34 and so on
So we do use hierarchical addressing and you're familiar with this already
We use this and postal mail
And this is how you should think of
how some of this is going to work for IP
For example
if you want to send something to me
how do you do that
Well
the most important part of this is the zip code that make sure it gets to the right
General
Regional location within the US
And then there's some further more detailed hierarchical information about where my building is actually located what street it's on
And what the building number is on that street and then a particular room number in that building them since multiple people my chair room
You probably also put my name on it so that it could actually get delivered to me soon
Forwarding the u.s
Mail out this way
They operate
It
Would the letter first or get delivered to the post office in the particular zip code
then we'd give it to the mail person covering the particular Street
And I dropped off the mail the letter in the mailbox for that building or Suite then maybe someone would further distribute that
So this is a hierarchical process going from that high-level getting it to the right post office on the right step code
Serta hierarchical addressing
We use a prefix to correspond to what network we're going to talk about and then shorter portion of the address to correspond to a particular host within the within that Network
So within this hierarchical addressing we break the address into two pieces
you can think of the left part
sort of like the zip code and then the right part would be sort of like the particular street address
Okay
So this sometimes is referred to as the slash notation
Like if I have a 24 prefix
which is what's designated with this example
or I'm using the first three bites to correspond to the prefix with eight bits allowed for the host
Then we might call the / 24, cuz we're using a 24-bit prefix
So what you would do to identify say the host
then you often work with the subnet mask
which could be 24 bits
and we could get rid of any of the information about the particular host
So if I took the conjunction of these two numbers in binary
I would zero out all these particular host Fitz
And then what this first part or prefix of the IP address would correspond to is the network that we need to send the information to
So this 1234
158 would correspond to the network again think of this prefix sort of like a zip code and I would first need to get it to the appropriate Network as we're delivering this pocket or piece of information
And the particular router is along the way
it wouldn't really need to worry about what the particular host is
There were just need to get it to the appropriate Network
And then once it's on the appropriate Network
then the route
Words within that Network
could deliver it to the final in toast
So
this is how the hierarchical addressing roughly would work if we were using a fixed-length prefix
like 24, vets